README.md, before:

# Inventory Manager

A robust Web API for product inventory management built with **C# 14** and **.NET 10**. This project demonstrates the application of **Clean Architecture**, **DDD Lite**, **RESTful Best Practices**, and a comprehensive testing strategy combining Unit and Integration tests.

## Table of Contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [How to Run](#how-to-run)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Architecture & Design Principles](#architecture--design-principles)

## Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed to run this project efficiently:

- **[.NET 10 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/10.0)** (or later)
- **[Docker](https://www.docker.com/)** (Optional, for containerization)
- **IDE:** [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com), [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), or [Rider](https://www.jetbrains.com/rider/).

## How to Run

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kauatwn/InventoryManager.git
```

### 2. Enter the Directory

```bash
cd InventoryManager
```

### 3. Choose Execution Method

You can run the application using **Docker** (recommended) or **Locally**.

#### Option A: Run with Docker

1. Build the image:

    ```bash
    docker build -t inventory-manager -f src/InventoryManager.API/Dockerfile .
    ```

2. Run the container:

    ```bash
    docker run --rm -it -p 8080:8080 -e ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT=Development --name inventory-manager inventory-manager
    ```

*The API documentation will be accessible at `http://localhost:8080/swagger`.*

#### Option B: Run Locally

1. Restore dependencies:

    ```bash
    dotnet restore
    ```

2. Run the API:

    ```bash
    dotnet run --project src/InventoryManager.API
    ```

*The API documentation will be accessible at `http://localhost:5270/swagger`.*

### 4. Execute Tests

To validate the domain logic, application flow, and API contracts:

```bash
dotnet test
```

## Project Structure

The solution follows the **Clean Architecture** principles to ensure separation of concerns and testability, with a dedicated split between Unit and Integration testing.

```plaintext
InventoryManager/
├── src/
│   ├── InventoryManager.API/              # Entry point, Controllers, Swagger
│   ├── InventoryManager.Application/      # Use Cases, DTOs, Mappers
│   ├── InventoryManager.Domain/           # Entities, Value Objects, Interfaces (Pure Logic)
│   └── InventoryManager.Infrastructure/   # EF Core, Repositories, Persistence
└── tests/
    ├── InventoryManager.UnitTests/        # Fast, isolated tests (Domain & Application)
    └── InventoryManager.IntegrationTests/ # Full stack tests (Controller -> Db)
```

## Architecture & Design Principles

This repository prioritizes **software engineering quality** and **maintainability**, following strict development guidelines.

### 1. Domain-Driven Design (DDD Lite)

The core logic resides entirely within the `Domain` layer.

- **Rich Domain Models:** Entities like `Product` enforce invariants (e.g., negative prices or empty names are impossible states).
- **Encapsulation:** Properties use `private set` to ensure changes only happen through valid business methods or constructors.
- **Value Objects:** Concepts like SKU are treated with specific formatting and validation rules.

### 2. Design Patterns

The project utilizes established patterns to ensure modularity and scalability.

| Pattern                  | Usage Scenario                         | Implementation                  |
|:------------------------:|:--------------------------------------:|:--------------------------------|
| **Repository**           | Abstracting data access logic          | `IProductRepository`            |
| **Dependency Injection** | Decoupling layers and enabling testing | `IServiceCollection` extensions |
| **Result / Wrapper**     | Standardizing API responses            | `PagedResponse<T>`              |

### 3. Comprehensive Testing Strategy

The project adopts a "Testing Pyramid" approach using **xUnit** and **Moq**.

- **Unit Tests:** Verify business rules and Use Cases in isolation. Fast execution (<100ms).
- **Integration Tests:** Verify the entire pipeline from the API Controller down to the Database.
  - **Technology:** Uses `WebApplicationFactory` and **EF Core InMemory**.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **Architectural Decision: Testing Isolation Strategy**
>
> In this project, we use the **EF Core InMemory** provider for simplicity and speed. Since `InMemory` maintains shared state during the test suite execution (due to the use of `IClassFixture` for performance), we adopted a **Defensive Strategy**:
>
> - We use **randomized IDs and SKUs** in write tests. This guarantees that a test never fails due to residual data left by another test (collision).
> - In production scenarios with real databases (SQL Server/Postgres), it is common to use **Total Isolation** strategies, such as **Transaction Rollbacks** or **Database Resets** (using libraries like [TestContainers](https://testcontainers.com/)), which would allow the use of static data.
> - We maintained the defensive approach here to focus didactically on the **API Contract** without the overhead of Docker/Containers configuration.

### 4. CI/CD & Quality

The project includes a **GitHub Actions** workflow that ensures quality on every push:

- **Fail-Fast Pipeline:** Runs Unit Tests first; Integration Tests only run if Unit Tests pass.
- **Static Analysis:** Integrates with **SonarQube Cloud** for code quality gates and coverage reporting.
- **Docker Build:** Verifies that the container image builds successfully.

Commit message:

docs: update README to clarify response patterns and error handling strategy (#10)
This commit aligns the project documentation with the current architectural decisions regarding API contracts and resilience. It clarifies the shift away from generic wrapper objects to direct DTO responses with header-based pagination, and details the centralized exception management strategy.

Changes included:
- Response Patterns: Documented the "envelope-less" approach where endpoints return direct DTOs or HTTP 204 (No Content), with pagination metadata moved to HTTP headers.
- Error Handling Strategy: Added a comprehensive section explaining the `IExceptionHandler` pipeline and how specific Domain, Validation, and System exceptions map to standardized HTTP status codes.
- Design Patterns: Updated the architectural reference table to formally recognize "Global Exception Handling" and "Header-Based Pagination" while removing the deprecated "Result/Wrapper" pattern.
- Organization: Restructured the README sections to prioritize architectural concepts and API interaction guidelines for better developer onboarding.

README.md, after:

# Inventory Manager

A robust Web API for product inventory management built with **C# 14** and **.NET 10**. This project demonstrates the application of **Clean Architecture**, **DDD Lite**, **RESTful Best Practices**, and a comprehensive testing strategy combining Unit and Integration tests.

## Table of Contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [How to Run](#how-to-run)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Architecture & Design Principles](#architecture--design-principles)

## Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed to run this project efficiently:

- **[.NET 10 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/10.0)** (or later)
- **[Docker](https://www.docker.com/)** (Optional, for containerization)
- **IDE:** [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com), [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), or [Rider](https://www.jetbrains.com/rider/).

## How to Run

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kauatwn/InventoryManager.git
```

### 2. Enter the Directory

```bash
cd InventoryManager
```

### 3. Choose Execution Method

You can run the application using **Docker** (recommended) or **Locally**.

#### Option A: Run with Docker

1. Build the image:

    ```bash
    docker build -t inventory-manager -f src/InventoryManager.API/Dockerfile .
    ```

2. Run the container:

    ```bash
    docker run --rm -it -p 8080:8080 -e ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT=Development --name inventory-manager inventory-manager
    ```

*The API documentation will be accessible at `http://localhost:8080/swagger`.*

#### Option B: Run Locally

1. Restore dependencies:

    ```bash
    dotnet restore
    ```

2. Run the API:

    ```bash
    dotnet run --project src/InventoryManager.API
    ```

*The API documentation will be accessible at `http://localhost:5270/swagger`.*

### 4. Execute Tests

To validate the domain logic, application flow, and API contracts:

```bash
dotnet test
```

## Project Structure

The solution follows the **Clean Architecture** principles to ensure separation of concerns and testability, with a dedicated split between Unit and Integration testing.

```plaintext
InventoryManager/
├── src/
│   ├── InventoryManager.API/              # Entry point, Controllers, Swagger
│   ├── InventoryManager.Application/      # Use Cases, DTOs, Mappers
│   ├── InventoryManager.Domain/           # Entities, Value Objects, Interfaces (Pure Logic)
│   └── InventoryManager.Infrastructure/   # EF Core, Repositories, Persistence
└── tests/
    ├── InventoryManager.UnitTests/        # Fast, isolated tests (Domain & Application)
    └── InventoryManager.IntegrationTests/ # Full stack tests (Controller -> Db)
```

## Architecture & Design Principles

This repository prioritizes **software engineering quality** and **maintainability**, following strict development guidelines.

### 1. Domain-Driven Design (DDD Lite)

The core logic resides entirely within the `Domain` layer.

- **Rich Domain Models:** Entities like `Product` enforce invariants (e.g., negative prices or empty names are impossible states).
- **Encapsulation:** Properties use `private set` to ensure changes only happen through valid business methods or constructors.
- **Value Objects:** Concepts like SKU are treated with specific formatting and validation rules.

### 2. Response Patterns

The API uses **direct DTO responses** instead of wrapper patterns, with specialized handling for different scenarios:

- **Single Resources**: Direct `ProductResponse` objects for individual items
- **Collections**: `List<ProductResponse>` with pagination metadata in HTTP headers (`X-Pagination`)
- **Pagination**: `PagedResult<T>` internally with `PagedMeta` for navigation information
- **Empty Results**: HTTP 204 (No Content) for successful operations without response body

### 3. Design Patterns

The project utilizes established patterns to ensure modularity and scalability.

| Pattern                  | Usage Scenario                         | Implementation                  |
|:------------------------:|:--------------------------------------:|:--------------------------------|
| **Repository**           | Abstracting data access logic          | `IProductRepository`            |
| **Dependency Injection** | Decoupling layers and enabling testing | `IServiceCollection` extensions |
| **Exception Handling**   | Centralized error management           | `IExceptionHandler` pipeline    |
| **Pagination**           | Standardizing paginated responses      | `PagedResult<T>` & `PagedMeta`  |

### 4. Error Handling Strategy

The API implements a **centralized exception handling approach** using ASP.NET Core's `IExceptionHandler` pipeline, eliminating the need for traditional Result patterns.

- **Domain Exceptions**: Business rule violations are handled by `DomainExceptionHandler` (422 Unprocessable Entity)
- **Validation Exceptions**: Input validation errors are handled by `ValidationExceptionHandler` (400 Bad Request)
- **Not Found Exceptions**: Resource not found scenarios are handled by `NotFoundExceptionHandler` (404 Not Found)
- **Conflict Exceptions**: Resource conflicts (e.g., duplicate SKU) are handled by `ConflictExceptionHandler` (409 Conflict)
- **Unhandled Exceptions**: Unexpected errors are handled by `UnhandledExceptionHandler` (500 Internal Server Error)

This approach ensures **clean separation** between business logic and HTTP concerns, with Use Cases focusing purely on domain operations while controllers remain thin and focused on HTTP-specific responsibilities.

### 5. Comprehensive Testing Strategy

The project adopts a "Testing Pyramid" approach using **xUnit** and **Moq**.

- **Unit Tests:** Verify business rules and Use Cases in isolation. Fast execution (<100ms).
- **Integration Tests:** Verify the entire pipeline from the API Controller down to the Database.
  - **Technology:** Uses `WebApplicationFactory` and **EF Core InMemory**.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **Architectural Decision: Testing Isolation Strategy**
>
> In this project, we use the **EF Core InMemory** provider for simplicity and speed. Since `InMemory` maintains shared state during the test suite execution (due to the use of `IClassFixture` for performance), we adopted a **Defensive Strategy**:
>
> - We use **randomized IDs and SKUs** in write tests. This guarantees that a test never fails due to residual data left by another test (collision).
> - In production scenarios with real databases (SQL Server/Postgres), it is common to use **Total Isolation** strategies, such as **Transaction Rollbacks** or **Database Resets** (using libraries like [TestContainers](https://testcontainers.com/)), which would allow the use of static data.
> - We maintained the defensive approach here to focus didactically on the **API Contract** without the overhead of Docker/Containers configuration.

### 6. CI/CD & Quality

The project includes a **GitHub Actions** workflow that ensures quality on every push:

- **Fail-Fast Pipeline:** Runs Unit Tests first; Integration Tests only run if Unit Tests pass.
- **Static Analysis:** Integrates with **SonarQube Cloud** for code quality gates and coverage reporting.
- **Docker Build:** Verifies that the container image builds successfully.
